---
layout: doc
sidebar: false
aside: false
pageClass: blog-post-page
---

# RobustMQ Storage Layer Design

Continuing from the previous article, to satisfy various scenarios, in our vision RobustMQ's pluggable storage layer mainly consists of the following three types:

1. **RocksDB and Memory in standalone mode**: Mainly for running test cases in standalone mode and single-node deployment scenarios that require persistent storage.
2. **Segment Engine**: RobustMQ's built-in storage layer. It is RobustMQ's core storage layer and is built into RobustMQ. It is used to meet low-latency storage scenarios.
   1. Local storage: Local file-based persistent distributed storage
   2. External storage: Such as S3 (cloud object storage), HDFS, MinIO, or even MySQL, Redis, etc.

## Storage Adapter

As mentioned in previous articles, RobustMQ's storage layer is uniformly distributed and stored through the Storage Adapter. See the article: [Storage Layer Storage Adapter Architecture](12.md)

## Shard Abstraction

## Standalone Mode

Because RocksDB's performance is sufficient, RocksDB storage engine is recommended for standalone persistent deployment scenarios. For local development and running test cases, Memory is recommended.

## Segment Engine

### Multiple Shard Types

1. Segmented / non-segmented
2. Memory storage / file storage

Data is stored in files in segments. Multiple replicas for consistency can be configured optionally.

### Tiered Storage

Segmented data is stored to remote storage.

## External Storage

Direct storage to external storage engines.
